Let's open our Bibles, please, to Matthew, chapter 26, and we will begin at verse 36.
Matthew 26, verse 36, then Jesus came with them, his disciples to the spot called Gethsemane,
and he said to his disciples, sit down here while I go over there to pray.
While I go over there to pray, the eternal future of all mankind rested on Jesus' shoulders.
His remaining faithful to God was essential. He knew that if he did not remain faithful,
it would be a slap in the face of Jehovah. It was prayer at this time in his life. That was the
most important thing. Yes, I am perfect. I have supernatural powers. I can resurrect the dead.
I can perform miracles. I'm the second greatest personage in the universe. I share in the creation.
But no, I'm not depending on that at this time. I'm not depending on supernatural powers and
natural abilities. I'm depending on my father. I'm leaning on him. It is prayer. It is
supplication. That's what I'm depending on at this time. I need my father's help. If I'm going
to surrender my life today in a way that brings honor to him and remain as an integrity keeper,
I need to pray so I'm going over there to pray. The first valuable lesson we learned right here is
we work out our salvation today with fear and trembling. We're careful that over confidence does
not overtake us or just thinking that years of service or somehow past acts of loyalty would be
a license into the new world known. Now is the time to pray. Now is the time as we
come into the great tribulation. It's in the offing. Now is the time to take stock of ourselves.
And if we find ourselves running any yellow lights and we haven't gotten in an accident yet,
now is the time to put on the brakes. Now is the time to go over there and pray. Let's read verse
37. And taking along Peter and two sons of Zebedee, he began to feel grieved and greatly troubled
verse 38. And he said, I am deeply grieved even to death. This was no act. This was no show. Jesus
feelings were real. He was deeply grieved, greatly troubled, why? Because he knew his death as a
criminal on a on a stake that would be a reproach to his father, Jehovah God. That's what he was
concerned about blasphemy, his father being accused of cursing God. It was just too much of for him
to bear. This is what grieves him greatly, not himself and his reputation, but his father's name
and reputation. So again, think about the lesson that we learn. What is the most important thing in
our life? What do we deeply grieved about being misunderstood or not getting a particular
privilege and so forth? No, that's not what grieves us. What grieves us is Jehovah's name, bringing
reproach on that name. We want to do everything we can to honor that name. Here we are as the
United States Bethel family. And we owe it to Jehovah because of our privileges. What he has
allowed us to do to be here and to serve him, honoring his name, bringing no reproach, whether in
public or in private. That's our goal. We should feel deeply grieved and sorely troubled
in just the thought of bringing reproach upon Jehovah. And Jehovah is just as real to us as the
person sitting next to us. Now, let's read verse 39. And going a little way forward, he fell
down, he fell face down, praying. He falls face down, praying. Think of the intensity that he was
under face down, praying. Luke reports at this point, he got into an agony and he continued praying
more earnestly and his sweat became his drops of blood face down, praying face down. And his
sweat becoming drops of blood, he was keenly aware of the pain. What his father would go through
is he would watch his beloved son put on a stake and treat it in such a barbaric fashion. He knew that
no wonder, no wonder during his ministry when he's explaining to his disciples that he would have
to die. No wonder he reacted so strongly to Peter's words. When Peter said, be kind to yourself,
Lord, this isn't going to happen to you. Be kind to yourself. This isn't going to happen to you.
What? Be kind to myself. Here I am in this garden. My sweat has become as drops of blood and you're
telling me, be kind to myself. No wonder he said, get behind me Satan. What a strong rebuke
because in Jesus' mind, no, this is not a time to be kind to himself. Those were words that could
have caused a stumbling block. Now let's go further in verse 39. My father, if it is possible,
let this cup pass away from me. Let the cup, the cup of reproach, the cup of dishonoring your name.
I can't handle that. Let it pass away. But Jehovah didn't. Jehovah said, no, this is the way I wanted
to be. So Christ lined up his will along with Jehovah's will. And he knew Jehovah was hearing him.
He knew this supplication was ascending to the heavens. He knew because from his prehuman existence,
he watched his father answer prayers. He watched it. He saw evidence when he was the first born
there in the heavens with his father. He watched his father answer these supplications and pleadings
of whether it be Hannah or Ruth or David. He saw that. So he knew my father is listening and will
answer this prayer. And he did. Because again, the gospel accounts at parallel this say that an
angel was sent to encourage Jesus at this time. What an encouragement that angel must have been
obviously Jesus would have known him from his prehuman existence. He gave reassuring words.
You have your father's favor. He gave him fresh strength to continue
that night. And it is of interest that apparently that angel is able to tell Jesus that
your death will not be a reproach on your father's name. In fact, your death is going to be the very
thing that Jehovah God uses to sanctify his name. So the very thing that was waiting,
a weighing on Jesus so much, Jehovah said, no, it won't reproach me. I'm going to use it to sanctify
my name. So just think about how encouraged Jesus was of that. And the lesson for you and for me,
again, another vital lesson. How do you know how Jehovah uses our acts of loyalty when we line up
our will with his? And when it's not easy, we do what Jehovah asks us to do. These acts of loyalty
are piling up in its evidence that he can use against the devil to say, look, look, that is sanctifying
my name. That Bethelite is sanctifying me. That Bethelite and that Bethelite, you see, that's an honor
that we never want to forget. Finally, verse 46, get up. Let us go. My betrayer has drawn
near. Get up. What did he mean by those words? Think of the power behind them. Get up. Let us go.
The time for prayer is over. Now it's time for action. It's as if Jesus was saying, it's time to
rise from my knees and get up and go into the battle. Let me get up and be trade by Judas. Let me get
up and be subjected to an illegal trial. Let me get up and be put on that torture stake slab beaten
and even nailed in an excruciating matter. It's time to do it. Let's do it. Get up. Let's go. We kneel
before God so that we may stand erect to face our challenges. So what a powerful lesson that is
again for you and me. We pray. We pray. And then it's time to get up. We get up. Go to work. Get up.
Go hit the publications. Get up. Go in the field service. In other words, we pray.
And we get up and we follow through. Price Jesus proved faithful because of
supplication and prayer that he uttered to his father and made Jehovah give us the strength to do
the same.